*You should never feeling you spend too much time on the topics below, it's like an excellent basketball player were saying: "I spend too much time on practising shooting."*

### Part 1 some key concepts

- Ruby's syntactic sugar
- Where does the code comes from
- Local variable scope
- Pass by reference vs pass by value

### Part 2 varaibles

#### Intro
 - What's a "data structure" of "collection"?
 - What's an Array?
 - What's a Hash?
  - ex: {:a => 1}
  - alternative syntax for symbols: {a: 1}, same as {:a => 1}

 - What's the difference between an Array and a Hash
  - order
  - index vs key retrieval
  - arrays can have duplicates, but hash keys are unique

#### Array
 - iterate over an array of numbers, loop vs iteration
 - append, prepend, remove, uniq
 - selection
  - select returns a new array that meets the criteria specified in the block (not precise)
  - select returns a new array when the block evaluates to true (not precise)
  - select returns a new array based on the block's return value. If it evaluates to true then the element is selected.
 - transformatio
  - map returns a new array based on the block's return value. each element is transformed based on the return value.
 - find sum of numbers

#### Hash
 - get value via key, vice versa
 - add key/value pairs
 - iterate through a hash
 - selection
 - delete key/value pairs which meets specific criteria

#### Other
 - can an array contain hashes? vice versa?
 - modifying an array value in a hash
 - modifying a hash element in an array

#### Common methods and mistakes beginners make

- iteration
- transformation
- selection

### Where are the methods in Ruby docs?

### Personal

- temperament
- code with intention
- fanatical attention to details

### Gneral Approach

- reproduce the error constently
- figure out a solution
- pay attention to "code smells"

### Tools

- puts vs print vs puts
- paying attention to return val vs output, and terminal vs irb
- pry
- rubber duck
- debugger
- walking away

### Methods

- extract to method
- consistently naming scheme
